=== 2.10.1 (TBD)
* SyncWrap::PostgreSQL; Update component and postgresql.conf for
  support of version 10. Changes are mostly cosmetic and remain
  backward compatible with Postgres 9.4+

=== 2.10.0 (2017-10-26)
* SyncWrap::Debian; dist_update condition based on local context
  hasn't worked properly since 2.7.0, when remote conditional install
  was implemented. Fix this by using a remote lock file and running
  prior to any install (inside install conditional) if it hasn't been
  run in last 1 hour by syncwrap.
* Add SyncWrap::Component#sh_if, sudo_if, and rudo_if helper methods
  for common bash conditionals.  Using these where applicable to
  simplify various internal components.
* Add SyncWrap::SystemDService#enable and disable commands
* Add SyncWrap::TimeChecker utility component
* SyncWrap::CRubyVM
  * Add hashes for 2.2.8, 2.3.5 and 2.4.2
  * Update default version to 2.3.5
* SyncWrap::JRubyVM; Add hash for 9.1.13.0 and make it the default
* SyncWrap::TarpitGem; default version 2.1.2
* SyncWrap::RakeGem; default version 12.1.0, support user_install
* Expand transitive dependency constraints for new releases:
  term-ansicolor, tins, json and nokogiri. The latest of tins and
  nokogiri are incompatible with jruby 1.7.x (in 1.9 mode) which
  prompts dropping jruby 1.7.x from syncwrap's Travis CI. Compatible
  earlier versions are still available to users however.

=== 2.9.1 (2017-8-4)
* SyncWrap::JRubyVM
  * Avoid setting GEM_HOME environment var in the jruby 9.x installed
    profile by default. In 2.9.0, this was added as a substitute for
    the jruby.gem.home system property, which when set caused
    incessant warnings with 9.x. However setting GEM_HOME also
    undesirably effects gem bin wrapper install location. Instead just
    use the default in-dist path of jruby 9.x, and system gems will
    need to be re-installed with a jruby upgrade.
  * Add support for fast path gem user_install (no-op if same version
    specification is found)
* Fix error message for CLI -S (session) with host not found

=== 2.9.0 (2017-7-18)
* SyncWrap::Debian
  * Fix Debian#dist_if_installed? grep pattern. Was previously giving
    some (so far harmless) false positives for known but not-installed
    packages.
  * Make the dist_if_installed? and dist_if_not_installed? methods
    more friendly for external use, with default arguments.
  * Expose a dist_update for external/explicit use, including
    :update_required option with dist_install.
* SyncWrap::Arch, SyncWrap::RHEL; dist_if_* default arguments parity
* SyncWrap::Network; Add name to /etc/hosts if necessary on Debian
* SyncWrap::CRubyVM
  * Add hashes for 2.2.7 and 2.3.4
  * Update default version to 2.2.7
  * Preemptively add 2.4 to distro rubies to uninstall
* SyncWrap::JRubyVM
  * Add hash for 1.7.27
  * Add hash and support for 9.1.12.0
* SyncWrap::LVMCache
  * Add --yes flag to final lvconvert call, required by later
    versions, compatible with earlier
  * Add thin-provisioning-tools as dependency on Debian, as the included
    cache_check command is needed for reboot.
* SyncWrap::Sudoers
  * Collect all sudoers config details here. This was previously
    spread between SyncWrap::Users and SyncWrap::UserData.
  * Add always_set_home option (was only default on RHEL)
  * Use common ordering of secure_path
* SyncWrap::PostgreSQL
  * Make the stop after Debian package install conditional
  * Make Debian move of pg_data_dir conditional
  * Use the more obvious pg_data_dir with etc config on Debian
* SyncWrap::OpenJDK support for Ubuntu 16.04 package openjdk-8-jdk-headless
* Add SyncWrap::SystemD#systemctl_status with filtering of end-of-line
  whitespace in output, as has been oberved when calling `systemctl
  status` remotely over SSH.

=== 2.8.3 (2017-1-31)
* Upgrade SyncWrap::CRubyVM default version to 2.2.6 (+ hash for 2.3.3)
* Upgrade SyncWrap::JRubyVM default version to 1.7.26
* Disable exit on error for `systemctl` in
  SyncWrap::SystemDService#status. Early exit was interfering with
  combining and merging `systemctl status` calls.

=== 2.8.2 (2016-11-1)
* Add new SyncWrap::ChangeGuard component to preserve change key state
  in remote guard files, across any transient component failures.
* Upgrade SyncWrap::JRubyVM default version to 1.7.25 (+ hash for 1.7.26)
* Upgrade SyncWrap::CRubyVM default version to 2.2.5 (erratum)
* Additional, comment-only updates to postgresql.conf as of version
  9.6.1. Changes remain backward compatible with 9.1+.

=== 2.8.1 (2016-7-20)
* Add support for passing options to SyncWrap::SystemD#systemctl which
  are passed though to sudo. Since systemctl returns non-zero for a
  variety of normal conditions, the :accept option can be passed to
  account for these.
* Accept commonplace (normal operations) exit codes 0-3 from
  `systemctl` in SyncWrap::SystemDService#status
* Fix silly typo in SyncWrap::ChangeKeyListener

=== 2.8.0 (2016-7-19)
* Only allow public component methods to be executed via the
  SyncWrap::Space#execute and thus the CLI. Previously it was possible
  to execute protected or private methods.
* Uniformly name start, stop, and restart methods on SyncWrap::Iyyov
  and SyncWrap::PostgreSQL for consistency and use in the CLI.  Also
  add reload and status methods to these components.
* Add optional SyncWrap::Puma systemd_socket (activation) support:
  * The systemd_unit property is deprecated in favor of systemd_service
  * Add lookup for systemd unit source files under the specific names
    configured, before using generic puma.service/puma.socket
    templates.
  * Add systemctl daemon-reload based on changes
  * Restart service or both socket and service based on changes
* Don't set a default port for SyncWrap::Puma, since users may prefer
  to set port(s) in a puma config file. If relying on this port
  selection, users will need to specify `port: 5874` on upgrade.
* Add SyncWrap::Puma start, stop, restart, and status methods.
* Add SyncWrap::SystemDService module for reuse
* Make systemd flag consistent between RHEL and Debian and respect
  false.
* SyncWrap::Bundle, SyncWrap::BundledIyyovDaemon and SyncWrap::Puma
  now support 'listening' for changes on multiple change keys, which
  is more intuitive to configure than having SyncWrap::SourceTree
  produce changes on multiple change keys.  However, the later is
  still supported.
* Add SyncWrap::ChangeKeyListener module for reuse
* Add :mode option to SyncWrap::RunUser#mkdir_run_user,
  SyncWrap::RunUser#run_dir_mode, SyncWrap::SourceTree#remote_dir_mode
  and change defaults to 0755. This was previously hard-coded to 0775,
  which caused ssh access as the :run_user to fail and other conflicts
  with distro security features.
* Set ssh option PasswordAuthentication=no when using
  Users#ssh_user_pem. This is reasonable with use of a PEM file and
  provides a (partial) workaround for an occasionally observed timing
  issue causing a password prompt to be temporarily offered on a
  booting CentOS host with Cloud-Init.
* CLI (-l --list*) listings now attempt to format output to (Unix)
  terminal width
* The :check_install option to Distro#dist_install added in 2.7.0 is
  now true (on) by default
* The previously deprecated :succeed flag to
  Disto#dist_install/dist_uninstall has been dropped
* Replace RHEL installed test with "rpm -q" which is considerably
  faster than "yum list"
* Add RHEL#dist_install :yum_flags options for special cases
* Fully replace the original use case for the :succeed option with
  SyncWrap::RHEL#dist_install_url, defaulting to package name
  extracted from rpm URL or file path for the install check
* SyncWrap::Iyyov with systemd should also conditionally daemon-reload
* Update SyncWrap::PostgreSQL and postgresql.conf for support of
  version 9.6 (as of beta 2). Changes remain backward compatible with
  9.1+ and SyncWrap 2.3+
* Minor fixes based on ruby 2.4 testing (including with frozen string
  literals)
* Upgrade dev dependencies to minitest 5.8.4 and tarpit 2.1.1
* Upgrade SyncWrap::CRubyVM default version to 2.1.10 (+ hash for 2.2.5)
* Upgrade SyncWrap::JRubyVM default version to 1.7.24 (+ hash for 1.7.25)
* Upgrade SyncWrap::BundlerGem default version to 1.12.5
* Upgrade SyncWrap::TarpitGem default version to 2.1.1

=== 2.7.1 (2016-3-2)
* Fix handling of the -R/--components-in-role flag to correctly limit
  to hosts including the role, for both execution and listing
  (-l). Previously errors would occur in execution if a
  matching (-h) host pattern restriction was not also provided.
* Fix interpretation of check_install and (deprecated) succeed options
  when used in calls to dist_install (all distros).
* Avoid check_install on RHEL when local rpm files or URLs are passed
  as a package to install. Previously the check_install conditional
  would always yield true (install needed) for these.

=== 2.7.0 (2016-1-21)
* Add SyncWrap::ZoneBalancer utility for balancing new hosts across
  multiple (AWS) availability zones for fault tolerance.
* Update SyncWrap::PostgreSQL for support of version 9.5. Changes,
  including postgresql.conf updates, remain backward compatible with
  9.1+ and SyncWrap 2.3.0+
* Add a check_install option to Distro#dist_install for all
  distros. This adds bash conditionals to check for the presence of
  system packages before invoking the package manager install/update
  commands. If already installed, this can greatly improve
  provisioning speed and will not perform updates which might be
  better left to when provisioning new hosts. The option is off by
  default for now, but is used for some more complete component
  dependencies (see below). To enable it globally,
  add `options( check_install: true )` to your sync.rb file.
* Make SyncWrap::RHEL#dist_uninstall :succeed (don't fail even if no
  packages are present) the default. This option is now deprecated on
  dist_uninstall.
* Use `apt-get remove`, instead of aptitude on Debian and Ubuntu.
* Since Debian's `apt-get remove` and Arch's `pacman -R` fail if any
  specified package is not found, test if each package is installed
  before removing it. The leniency of dist_uninstall is now consistent
  across all distros.
* Some minimal distros like Debian 8 might not include rsync in a base
  image. Add a conditional dist_install of rsync to the
  SyncWrap::Users component before attempting to rput user home
  dirs. A distro component needs to be included before Users for
  this to occur. Backward compatibility is maintained when this is not
  the case.
* Some minimal distro base images might not include curl. Add
  dist_install of curl to components that use it, either as part of
  build dependencies, or separately using the new check_install
  feature (see above) to minimize performance impact.
* Add preliminary support for non-default or multiple VPCs, or mixed
  EC2-VPC and EC2-Classic deployments via the vpc and subnet_id
  profile properties with the SyncWrap::AmazonEC2 provider.
* Add workaround for crash on jruby 9.0.0-4 with (wrapped) sync file
  load (See jruby#3180 and #3609). Tests show wrapped load working
  correctly on jruby 1.7.24 and 9.0.5 snapshots.
* Upgrade SyncWrap::JRubyVM default version to 1.7.23 (+ hash for 1.7.24)
* Upgrade SyncWrap::CRubyVM default version to 2.1.8
* Fix tmpdir access issue with rput with templates to localhost and
  alt non-root :user option.

=== 2.6.2 (2015-12-3)
* By way of comparability to RHEL 7, SyncWrap::AmazonLinux with a
  specified amazon_version property >= '2014.03' would incorrectly
  return true for systemd?. As Amazon Linux has yet (2015.09) to
  migrate to systemd, override this to return false.

=== 2.6.1 (2015-12-2)
* Default SyncWrap::PostgreSQL to version 9.4 on Debian 8+.
* Use PATH to find `systemctl`, like other system tools. Debian 8 still
  doesn't have merged /usr/bin.
* Add -a/--add-role flag to CLI to add role(s) with create or image
  beyond what is specified by the profile.
* Add curl to existing build deps of SyncWrap::CRubyVM and
  SyncWrap::Hashdot. This resolves the simplest cases where a minimal
  base image not-including curl would have failed. Other cases will
  be addressed in subsequent releases.

=== 2.6.0 (2015-11-13)
* Add SyncWrap::LVMCache component, with
  SyncWrap::Distro#unmount_device moved from MDRaid.
* Add SyncWrap::Space#compose (and main) utility for sync file inline
  components.
* Add systemd support for all distros: Arch, RHEL/CentOS 7+, and by
  default, Debian 8+ and Ubuntu 15.04+ via the SyncWrap::SystemD
  module. See also various updates in SyncWrap::Distro.
* Add SyncWrap::Iyyov systemd service unit file and install support.
* Add SyncWrap::Puma systemd service unit file and install support.
* Add cryptographic hash verification support to SyncWrap::CRubyVM,
  SyncWrap::JRubyVM, SyncWrap::Hashdot, and SyncWrap::CommercialJDK.
* Add -R/--components-in-role flag support in CLI to limit components
  executed to those contained by one or more roles.
* Upgrade SyncWrap::JRubyVM default version to 1.7.22
* Upgrade SyncWrap::CRubyVM default version to 2.1.7
* Move AmazonEC2.ec2_user_data to SyncWrap::UserData module for
  broader use.

=== 2.5.1 (2015-10-19)
* Add SyncWrap::RHEL#dist_uninstall :succeed flag for removing
  packages which may not exist
* Fix for CRubyVM on minimal CentOS 7.1: Use above :succeed flag on
  distro ruby uninstall, add ruby 2.2
* Fix --delete-attached-storage on AWS HVM by broadening pattern of
  device names
* Fix a timing issue observed with SyncWrap::AmazonEC2 instance
  creation

=== 2.5.0 (2015-3-20)
* Merge 9.4 release postgresql.conf additions (comments only)
* Add :manifest option to rput and SourceTree (with ./Manifest.txt default)
* Upgrade SyncWrap::JRubyVM default version to 1.7.19

=== 2.4.0 (2015-1-2)
* Upgrade SyncWrap::CRubyVM default version to 2.1.5 and add libffi as
  build dependency.
* Upgrade SyncWrap::JRubyVM default version to 1.7.17
* When using the sh :user option which uses `sudo` on the remote, add
  a `cd /` to the start of the shell command sequence. Prior to this
  change, the working directory remained the home directory of the ssh
  user (by convention, a dev. user) which shouldn't be writable and
  might not even by readable by the target :user (ex: runr). This
  caused often cryptic warnings or even fatal errors when accessing
  certain command line tools from the shell.

=== 2.3.0 (2014-9-20)
* Add SyncWrap::Debian (with Ubuntu as child), SyncWrap::CentOS and
  SyncWrap::AmazonLinux (with RHEL as parent) to form a Distro
  hierarchy with various version properties. Extends distribution
  support and enables better distro-specific defaults (for example in
  PostgreSQL).
* Add Debian Network and PostgreSQL support
* SyncWrap::OpenJDK notes on Debian JDK bloat from X11
* Add preliminary (dev environment) support for SyncWrap::Arch Linux,
  including support in OpenJDK and Hashdot.
* Add SyncWrap::SourceTree and SyncWrap::Bundle components
* Add SyncWrap::Puma component
* Add SyncWrap::BundlerGem, SyncWrap::RakeGem, SyncWrap::TarpitGem
  components
* Add SyncWrap::BundledIyyovDaemon for Iyyov support for bundled Iyyov
  daemons
* Fix JRubyVM#gem_install version check
* Add RubySupport#gem_install support for user_install as specific
  user.
* Protect various component accessors which should not be visible at
  the Context level.
* The SyncWrap::PostgreSQL#version deprecated/aliased in favor of
  SyncWrap::PostgreSQL#pg_version
* SyncWrap::RunUser#make_dir deprecated/aliased in favor of
  SyncWrap::RunUser#mkdir_run_user
* Introduce SyncWrap::VersionSupport and use for array-version
  comparisons
* Add TestComponents bash validate assertions, and random permutation
  for changes

=== 2.2.0 (2014-7-13)
* New SyncWrap::Component#sh :pipefail option to pass bash flag "-o
  pipefail" to return the first non-zero command return from a
  pipeline.  This option defaults to true when the :error (bash -e)
  option is also true (the default). You should review pipeline usage
  in your own components as part of upgrading. Internally, the
  SyncWrap::Hashdot component required an adjustment for this change.
* Major SyncWrap::PostgreSQL component updates. You need to
  review and adjust any configuration overrides and constructor
  properties:
  * Use templates to consolidate RHEL and Ubuntu configuration. Files
    moved to sync/postgresql. (#2)
  * Use distro default PG data directory, by default. Tested
    Amazon Linux EBS MDRaid mount direct to /var/lib/pgsql9. (#3)
  * No elevated permissions (trust, etc.) by default (#4)
  * Configuration is 9.3 ready (9.1-9.3 compatible)
  * Configuration no longer assumes AWS EBS optimizations, relaxed
    guarantees. See test/aws/sync.rb sample for new PostgreSQL
    properties to maintain compatibility.
* Removed vestigial SyncWrap::Distro package_map and localize package
  variations to the individual components.
* SyncWrap::RunUser now creates a _system_ user/group with default
  home the same as run_dir.
* Add :ebs_mounts AWS profile option to support HVM-style dev mounts,
  made apparent by EC2 t2 instance types.
* Upgrade SyncWrap::JRubyVM default version to 1.7.13
* Upgrade SyncWrap::CRubyVM default version to 2.1.2
* Upgrade to aws-sdk ~> 1.46 (no longer depends on uuidtools)

=== 2.1.3 (2014-7-8)
* Use sudo instead of --rsync-path=sudo... for :user on localhost
* Cleanup the environment for gem_install on different ruby, when
  localhost bundler is in play.
* Fix RubySupport#gem_install count regex (used with :check)
* Remove obsolete accept: 0 in gem_install :check capture
* Upgrade default CRubyVM to 2.0.0-p481
* Add CRubyVM 2.1.x version support

=== 2.1.2 (2014-4-21)
* Fix Network.dns_search (alias dns_domain) to resolve.conf support

=== 2.1.1 (2014-4-15)
* Use 'syncwrap-' as tmpdir prefix.
* Fix Users, RunUser use of useradd, adding -s and -m options, for
  Ubuntu (where bash shell is not default)
* Add RunUser.run_user_home option; no change in default
* IyyovDaemon: handle case of non-version related job changes

=== 2.1.0 (2014-3-5)
* Simplify existing state handling (i.e. Ubuntu.first_apt?, Users
  :just_created) by introducing SyncWrap::Component#state
* Add hashdot_updated state (i.e. jruby update) and use in Iyyov and
  IyyovDaemon components to signal required restarts.
* Add :iyyov_root_jobs_installed state keeping to avoid redundant
  rput's to Iyyov root jobs.rb
* Add CLI --create-image and AmazonEC2 support
* Add SyncWrap::GitHelp module for using a git hash as a host/image
  tag from the profile
* Add :imaging state awareness to Iyyov and IyyovDaemon: stop (or
  don't launch) these when imaging
* Add availability_zone to imported/saved Amazon host properties
* Fix failure on (EC2) import from Host.initialize order
* EC2 create_instance maps profile description and tag to tags
* Add --ssh-session (interactive shell) support to CLI
* Add --verbose-changes (verbose only for changing rputs) CLI option
* Drop CLI -I short option for infrequently used --import-hosts
* Disable EC2 operations, don't fail, if AWS credentials not found
* Improve Users pem-not-found warning
* Improve CLI --help summary
* Upgrade default CRubyVM to 2.0.0-p451

=== 2.0.0 (2014-2-26)
* Major rewrite with only very limited conceptual compatibility with
  1.x. See README, LAYOUT, and examples.
* Now requires ruby 1.9 stdlib. Internally makes extensive use of new
  Hash syntax.
* New CLI, `syncwrap` command and sync.rb file replaces
  Vlad/RemoteTask and rake (though rake integration is still
  possible.) SyncWrap 2 is a standalone complete solution.
* Component classes and dynamic binding replaces the subject-oriented
  module mixins.
* Block oriented, thread safe, colored console output
* SyncWrap::Component#sh replaces `run`, includes a command queue
  and compossible scripts.
* SyncWrap::Component#rput with multiple sync_paths and transparent
  ERB template support.
* Extensive updates, templating, reliability improvements, and
  optimization of existing provisions (now Components)
* New Iyyov jobs.d support and standardized SyncWrap::IyyovDeamon

=== 1.5.2 (2013-4-10)
* Add check for init, aws_configure only if aws_config_json file
  exists.
* Generalize waiting for created/terminated AWS resources, including
  better diagnostic output.
* Add missing wait for EBS volume creation.
* Add default wait for Route53 CNAME creation, using current
  authoritative Amazon name server.

=== 1.5.1 (2013-4-3)
* Include syncwrap/aws.rb for real.

=== 1.5.0 (2013-4-3)
* Extended shell_escape_command for sudo sh command.
* New SyncWrap::AWS for EC2 instance creation, mdraid over EBS
  volumes, and Route53 DNS updates.
* Add *_s command format-only variants of the distro commands for
  increased flexibility usage and ability to reduce the number of
  shells/round-trips.
* Add :minimal flag support to Ubuntu.dist_install*
* Add auto-once, per-host `apt-get update` to Ubuntu.dist_install*

=== 1.4.0 (2012-10-16)
* PostgreSQL configuration updates for 9.2.x (RHEL only)
* Add support for build, deploy, configure of Apache Qpid for which
  stock RPMs are not available on Amazon Linux. This includes corosync
  build for a working cluster setup on EC2.
* Add :succeed option to RHEL.dist_install (for local RPM files that
  may already be installed)

=== 1.3.0 (2012-10-4)
* Include RHEL/Amazon Linux PostgreSQL 9.1 config and deploy support
  and reorganize for Ubuntu support as well. Default deploy data dir
  is now /pg/data which makes sense for an EBS mount. Config is
  further tuned for EBS.  PostgreSQL::EC2 has been dropped.
  PostgreSQL::RHEL and PostgreSQL::Ubuntu are auto-included with
  PostgreSQL module if RHEL or Ubuntu is included.
* For performance on relatively slow virtual hosts, only check
  iyyov_install if iyyov_install_jobs( :install => true )
* Add generic etc/gemrc and jruby_install_gemrc (incl in jruby_install)
* Include jstat in list of java command symlinks with java_install
* EC2.ec2_reformat_mnt_as_ext is for ephemoral not EBS, rename
  attribute to ec2_es_device

=== 1.2.1 (2012-9-25)
* Build hashdot with java 1.7.0_07 as well
* Fix lib jruby link on update: --no-dereference

=== 1.2.0 (2012-9-25)
* Touch jobs.rb if not otherwise modified by iyyov_install_jobs. This
  notifies iyyov to restart a daemon when the jobs.rb is otherwise
  unchanged (and using a daemon version range.)
* Upgrade to JRuby 1.6.8 (default)
* Upgrade to Iyyov 1.1.4 (default, in init.d/iyyov)
* Upgrade to java 1.7.0_07

=== 1.1.0 (2012-9-13)
* Add (boxed-)geminabox provisions and deploy task
* Upgrade to (default) jdk-ora-1.7.0_05-x64
* RHEL version of test Rakefile, init.d/iyyov
* Fix RHEL yum args
* Silence user_exist? id command output
* iyyov_install_rundir as user_run

=== 1.0.0 (2012-7-15)
* Initial release.
