= SyncWrap

* http://github.com/dekellum/syncwrap

== Description

A generalized and modular set of provisioning and deployment routines.
The Rake-centric Vlad and not-actually-Rake Capistrano both suffer
from lack of objects, e.g. the ability to customize and mix-in
behavior. SyncWrap offers an Object/Module system that can be used
with either.  Known to work with Vlad/rake-remote_task but could also
be integrated with Capistrano, or others.

== Features

* Multi-line shell support in SyncWrap::Common#run,
  SyncWrap::Common#sudo for more natural script embedding

* SyncWrap::Common::rput offers some useful rsync magic, like setting
  the owner of placed remote files

* Platform differences are factored out into platform-specific modules

* SyncWrap::RemoteTask rake-remote_task adapter (see synopsis below)

* Gem install utilities. e.g. SyncWrap::JRuby#jruby_check_gem,
  SyncWrap::JRuby#jruby_install_gem

== Provisions

Currently the following provisions are provided:

* Complete SyncWrap::Java, SyncWrap::Hashdot, SyncWrap::JRuby stack

* SyncWrap::PostgreSQL

* SyncWrap::Iyyov job scheduler and process monitor

* SyncWrap::UserRun for setup of a run user for deployed daemons, jobs
  and var directories.

== Synopsis

For example, in your Rakefile with the SyncWrap::RemoteTask adapter:

  class SyncWrapper

    # Include these support modules for the tasks below, or include
    # your own.

    include SyncWrap::Java
    include SyncWrap::Hashdot
    include SyncWrap::JRuby
    include SyncWrap::Ubuntu

    include SyncWrap::RemoteTask

    def initialize
      super
      self.common_prefix = '/usr/local'
    end

    def define_tasks
      desc "Combined Java, Hashdot, JRuby Deployment"
      remote_task :jruby_deploy do
        java_install
        hashdot_install
        jruby_install
      end
    end

    # Override any of the support methods as needed.

  end

  SyncWrapper.new.define_tasks

== License

Copyright (c) 2011-2013 David Kellum

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you
may not use this file except in compliance with the License.  You
may obtain a copy of the License at:

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
implied.  See the License for the specific language governing
permissions and limitations under the License.
